v5.14 Changelog (#2850)
mattermost/docs: source/administration/changelog.md

Also see [changelog in progress](http://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the next release.

## Release v5.14 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/process/release-faq.html#release-overview)

Release Date 2019-08-16

### Compatibility

#### Removed and Deprecated Features

 - We are removing support for Internet Explorer (IE11) in Mattermost v5.16.0, which releases on October 16, 2019. Learn more in our [forum post](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/mattermost-is-dropping-support-for-internet-explorer-ie11-in-v5-16/7575).
 - **Enable Plugin Health Check** removed from ``config.json``. Instead, all plugins are now automatically monitored and restarted if a plugin has crashed or is deemed unhealthy. If a plugin crashes three times within an hour, the server automatically deactivates the plugin.
 
### Breaking Changes

>  - **Change related to viewing webhooks**

Reviewer: Can we be more specific?

Author: @crspeller This changelog is still WIP. I'm waiting for this PR to be reviewed: https://github.com/mattermost/docs/pull/2864.

Reviewer 2: I've commented on the linked PR.

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than 5.12, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Guest Accounts (EE)
#### Synchronize LDAP Groups to Teams/Channels (EE)
#### ADA screen reader accessibility improvements
#### Added bidirectional scrolling to land on oldest unread post
#### Jira V2.1

> #### Pre-packaged plugins (Jenkins, Walltime)

Reviewer 3: @aaronrothschild @crspeller can you please provide the exact list of new bundled plugins for 5.14?

Reviewer: Walltime was cut. Jenkins, antivirus, and Skype for business are in progress but not in yet.

 - Added support for Range on files needed by Safari to view videos.
 - Added ability to add info cards to the right-hand side section.
 - Added support for rendering emojis in Message Attachment field titles.
 - Changed "About" section references to use the site name when it is configured in **System Console > Custom Branding > Site Name**.
 - Combined "Send messages on CTRL+ENTER" with code block setting.
 - Added ability to upload files on paste when file constructor is not supported (ie. in Edge or IE11).
 
#### Import/Export
 - Added the ability to import Slack corporate export files with direct messages, group messages and private channels.
 - Added support for exporting Global Relay to zip file.

#### Webhooks
 - Outgoing webhooks now contain and log request ID.
 - Added support for plugins to dismiss posts through the ``MessageWillBePosted`` hook.
 - Added an "emoji_icon" field to incoming webhooks.
 
#### Integrations
 - Added support for interactive dialogs with no elements, which can be, e.g. used for confirmation dialogs.
 - Added support for relative links in interactive message buttons.
 

> #### Plugins

Reviewer: Support for installing plugins in HA.

Author: This is in the highlights section.

Release Date 2019-08-16

### Compatibility

#### Removed and Deprecated Features

 - We are removing support for Internet Explorer (IE11) in Mattermost v5.16.0, which releases on October 16, 2019. Learn more in our [forum post](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/mattermost-is-dropping-support-for-internet-explorer-ie11-in-v5-16/7575).
 - **Enable Plugin Health Check** removed from ``config.json``. Instead, all plugins are now automatically monitored and restarted if a plugin has crashed or is deemed unhealthy. If a plugin crashes three times within an hour, the server automatically deactivates the plugin.
 
### Breaking Changes
 - **Change related to viewing webhooks**

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than 5.12, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Guest Accounts (EE)
#### Synchronize LDAP Groups to Teams/Channels (EE)
#### ADA screen reader accessibility improvements
#### Added bidirectional scrolling to land on oldest unread post
#### Jira V2.1
#### Pre-packaged plugins (Jenkins, Walltime)

> #### Framework: HA - plugin uploads

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### High Availability Plugin Uploads
Plugins uploaded via the System Console or the command line interface are now persisted to the configured file store and automatically installed on all servers that join the cluster.

Manually installed plugins remain fully supported, but will not automatically install on other servers in the cluster.
```

#### Removed beta label from Office365 SSO

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Added support for allowing ``+`` and ``.`` in **System Console > Customization > Posts > Custom URL Schemes**.
 - Added support for Range on files needed by Safari to view videos.
 - Added ability to add info cards to the right-hand side section.
 - Added support for rendering emojis in Message Attachment field titles.
 - Changed "About" section references to use the site name when it is configured in **System Console > Custom Branding > Site Name**.
 - Combined "Send messages on CTRL+ENTER" with code block setting.
 - Added ability to upload files on paste when file constructor is not supported (ie. in Edge or IE11).
 
#### Import/Export
 - Added the ability to import Slack corporate export files with direct messages, group messages and private channels.
 - Added support for exporting Global Relay to zip file.

#### Webhooks

>  - Outgoing webhooks now contain and log request ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- EnableWebhookDebugging now logs the request id for additional context when debugging.
```

>  - Added support for plugins to dismiss posts through the ``MessageWillBePosted`` hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added support for plugins to dismiss posts through the ``MessageWillBePosted`` hook. Dismissed posts no longer show up as a client-side error.
```

>  - Added an "emoji_icon" field to incoming webhooks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added an optional "icon_emoji" field to incoming webhooks to use an emoji in place of the profile picture.
```

 
#### Integrations

>  - Added support for interactive dialogs with no elements, which can be, e.g. used for confirmation dialogs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added support for interactive dialogs without elements, e.g. for confirmation dialogs.
```

>  - Added support for relative links in interactive message buttons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added support for relative links in interactive message buttons, simplifying plugin development.
```

 
#### Plugins

>  - Added ability to download and install a plugin from a remote url so that a user does not need to download the plugin themselves and upload it from their computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added ability to download and install a plugin from a remote url via the system console.
```

 - Added support for plugins to override right-hand sidebar.

>  - Added support for plugins to trigger interactive dialogs even without clicking an interactive button/menu or using a slash command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added support for plugins to trigger interactive dialogs programmatically, instead of only after a user action.
```

 
#### Bot Accounts

>  - Added the ability to override left-hand side icon for bot accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added the ability to override left-hand side icon for bot accounts in the webapp.
```

 - Added an identifier for compliance exports when a message is posted by a bot account.

>  - Created a new System Console page for existing bot account ``config.json`` settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Created a dedicated System Console page at /admin_console/integrations/bot_accounts to organize bot configuration options.
```

 
#### Command Line Interface (CLI)
 - Added support for converting bot accounts to user accounts with email/password login through the CLI.
 - Extended the config migrate command to handle SAML keys and certificates.
 - Updated CLI channel list and search commands to show if a channel is private.
 
#### Administration
 - Removed maximum length from ``LinkMetadata`` value so that links can generate OpenGraph previews and be stored in the database.
 - The config.json file is now generated with build time using defaults in code and not in ``default.json``.
 - Added new settings to have more control over ``BindAddress`` and ``AdvertiseAddress`` in the cluster server to allow users to configure properly in situations where the servers are communicating through another server using NAT.
 
#### Enterprise Edition (EE)

>  - Added support for signing SAML requests to be able to be approved to Infosec.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't make sense, but I don't know what the original PR was about.

>  - Added support for configuring the device to detect the IP in High Availability clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Added support for configuring the interface used for cluster peer discovery in High Availability clusters.
```

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:

### Database Changes

### API Changes
 - Migrated user API endpoint from Google+ API to People API.
 - Added promote/demote API endpoint.
 - Added invite/remove/promote API endpoints.
 - Added ``/search_group`` API endpoint to return the group channels whose members' usernames match the search term.
 - Added "users who will be removed from team" API endpoint.
 - Added "users who will be removed from channel" API endpoint.
 - Added API to retrieve paginated list of teams, including total count.
 - Added API to retrieve paginated list of channels, including total count.
 - Added API to get users modified since a given time.
 - Added "GET /posts/unread" API to support landing on the last unread post.
 - Added JSON versions of the KVStore plugin API.
 - Added GET POST DELETE handlers for /api/v4/bots/<BOT_USER_ID>/icon endpoint.

#### Plugin API
 - Extended PluginAPI to include ``GetBotIconImage``, ``SetBotIconImage`` and ``DeleteBotIconImage``.

### Websocket Event Changes

### Known Issues
 - Buttons inside ephemeral messages are not clickable / functional on the mobile app.

>  - On a server using a subpath, the URL opens a blank page if the System Admin changes the Site URL in the System Console UI. To fix, the System Admin should restart the server.

Reviewer 2: Could we just document this as expected behaviour? I don't see us ever fixing this, per se.

 - Created a dedicated System Console page at /admin_console/integrations/bot_accounts to organize bot configuration options.
 
#### Command Line Interface (CLI)
 - Added support for converting bot accounts to user accounts with email/password login through the CLI.
 - Extended the config migrate command to handle SAML keys and certificates.
 - Updated CLI channel list and search commands to show if a channel is private.
 - Create CLI command "team modify" to modify team's privacy setting.
 
#### Administration
 - Removed maximum length from ``LinkMetadata`` value so that links can generate OpenGraph previews and be stored in the database.
 - The config.json file is now generated with build time using defaults in code and not in ``default.json``.
 - Added new settings to have more control over ``BindAddress`` and ``AdvertiseAddress`` in the cluster server to allow users to configure properly in situations where the servers are communicating through another server using NAT.
 - implemented enhanced logging for CSRF warnings by adding the following information to each request: Remote Adddress, Path, User ID, Session ID.
 
#### Enterprise Edition (EE)

>  - Added support for signing SAML requests to be able to be approved to Infosec.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Added support for signing SAML requests, as required for Infosec approval.
```

    - Added ``SignRequest`` to add support for signing SAML requests.
 - Under ``PluginSettings`` in ``config.json``:
    - Added ``AllowInsecureDownloadUrl`` to allow servers to download and install a plugin from a remote url via the System Console.

### Open Source Components

 - Added ``core-js`` in https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile/.
 - Added ``deepmerge`` in https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile/.
 - Removed ``react-native-bottom-sheet`` from https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile/.
 - Added ``react-hot-loader`` in https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp.
 - Removed ``@babel/polyfill`` from https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp.
 - Removed ``redux-persist-transform-filter`` from https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp.
 - Removed ``url-search-params-polyfill`` from https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp.
 - Removed ``whatwg-fetch`` from https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-webapp.

### API Changes
 - Migrated user API endpoint from Google+ API to People API.
 - Added ``api/v4/channels/group/search`` API endpoint to return the group channels whose members' usernames match the search term.

>  - Added ``/api/v4/channels/:channel_id/members_minus_group_members`` API endpoint.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Added ``/api/v4/channels/:channel_id/members_minus_group_members`` API endpoint to determine users who will be removed from a group-synchronized channel.
```

 - Added ``api/v4/posts/unread`` API endpoint to support landing on the last unread post.

>  - Added ``api/v4/teams/:team_id/members_minux_group_members`` API endpoint.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 - Added ``api/v4/teams/:team_id/members_minux_group_members`` API endpoint to determine users who will be removed from a group-synchronized team.
```

### Compatibility

#### Removed and Deprecated Features

 - We are removing support for Internet Explorer (IE11) in Mattermost v5.16.0, which releases on October 16, 2019. Learn more in our [forum post](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/mattermost-is-dropping-support-for-internet-explorer-ie11-in-v5-16/7575).
 
### Breaking Changes

 - Webhooks are now only displayed if the user is the creator of the webhook or a system administrator.
 - With the update from Google+ to Google People, system admins need to ensure the ``GoogleSettings.Scope`` config.json setting is set to ``profile email`` and ``UserAPIEndpoint`` setting should be set to ``https://people.googleapis.com/v1/people/me?personFields=names,emailAddresses,nicknames,metadata`` per [updated documentation](https://docs.mattermost.com/deployment/sso-google.html).

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than 5.12, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

> #### ADA screen reader accessibility improvements

Reviewer 5: Keyboard navigation and screen reader improvements

- New keyboard navigation improvements enable you to move between app regions—like the post list, channel sidebar, and header—using F6 on the Desktop App and CTRL-F6 on a web browser. You can also use TAB, arrow keys, and ENTER to interact with buttons, links, and other elements in Mattermost.
- Screen readers are now much more compatible with Mattermost. Buttons, links, and app regions now have accurate readouts that enable visually impaired users to use Mattermost productively with screen readers.
- [Learn more](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://docs.mattermost.com/help/getting-started/accessibility.html&sa=D&ust=1565910635884000&usg=AFQjCNEe8Y46SC8qTcuhknoFZn5pjyOTJQ)
